.TH SBOUI-BACKEND.CONF 5
.SH NAME
sboui-backend.conf \- configuration file for sboui-backend
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sboui-backend.conf
contains settings for
.BR sboui-backend (8),
a command-line utility for installing software from SlackBuilds.org.
This file resides in
.IR /etc/sboui/sboui-backend.conf ,
but a different file can be read instead by setting the CONF environment variable.
This manual describes the configuration settings specified in the configuration file.
Variable names, default values, and descriptions are listed below.
.PP
.TP
.B REPO
.br
default:
.B git://git.slackbuilds.org/slackbuilds.git
.IP
Specifies the
.B git
repository to clone and sync locally.
Most users should stick with the default, but if tracking -current, you may want to use
.I git://github.com/Ponce/slackbuilds.git
instead.
.TP
.B BRANCH
.br
default:
.B 14.2
.IP
The branch to clone and sync.
The SBo project creates a new branch for each Slackware release, so use the branch corresponding to the version of Slackware installed.
This input is not relevant for the Ponce -current repo.
.TP
.B REPO_DIR
.br
default:
.I /var/lib/sboui/repo
.IP
Location to store the SBo repository locally.
If you are using
.B sboui
with the built-in
.B package_manager
setting, make sure that this location matches
.B repo_dir
in your
.B sboui
settings.
.TP
.B CLEAN_PACKAGE
.br
default:
.B no
.IP
Whether to delete the package created by the SlackBuild script after installing.
.TP
.B CLEAN_TMP
.br
default:
.B no
.IP
Whether to remove temporary build and source directories after installing the package.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sboui/sboui-backend.conf
.br
Default configuration file for
.BR sboui-backend .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sboui-backend (8),
.BR sboui (8),
.BR sboui-update-notifier (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel Prosser <dpross1100@msn.com>
