.TH SBOUI-UPDATE-NOTIFIER 1
.SH NAME
sboui-update-notifier \- system tray notifier for SBo package updates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sboui-update-notifier
[\fBINTERVAL\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sboui-update-notifier
checks whether SBo updates are available, notifies the user via a system tray icon, and optionally launches
.B sboui
to perform the upgrades.
.PP
.B Instructions
.PP
.B sboui-update-notifier
is intended to be run as a startup script for the user's desktop environment or window manager to receive automatic update notifications for SBo packages.
It is only installed when
.B sboui
is configured with
.I INSTALL_SYSTRAY_NOTIFIER
enabled.
In that case, an hourly cronjob is also installed to automatically keep the local SBo repository up-to-date.
.B sboui-update-notifier
checks whether updates are available at a regular interval, and, if so, places the
.B sboui
icon in the system tray.
When clicked,
.B sboui
is launched to perform the upgrades.
.PP
Note that the hourly cronjob uses the RSS feed to detect updates (only downloading the first 2 kB), and a full sync is only performed if indicated by the RSS feed.
This procedure ensures that undue load is not placed on the SBo server every hour.
.SH OPTIONS
.B sboui-update-notifier
accepts one optional command-line option:
.TP
.B \fBINTERVAL\fR
.br
Specify the period of time, in seconds, to wait between checks for updates.
The default is 3600 seconds, or 1 hour.
Note that this option does not affect the frequency at which the cronjob runs.
To change that interval, move the cronjob from /etc/cron.hourly to another location, such as /etc/cron.daily.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to the email address below or on the issue tracker for sboui's project page,
.IR https://github.com/montagdude/sboui .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sboui (8),
.BR sboui-backend (8),
.BR crond (8),
.BR crontab (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel Prosser <dpross1100@msn.com>
