.TH SBOUI 8
.SH NAME
sboui \- ncurses user interface for SlackBuilds.org package managers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sboui
[\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-file\fR \fIFILE\fR] 
.PP
.B sboui
[\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sync\fR] 
.PP
.B sboui
[\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-upgrade-all\fR] 
.PP
.B sboui
[\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-upgradable\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sboui
is a package management tool for SlackBuilds.org (SBo).
It features an ncurses user interface that combines the user-friendliness typically found in a GUI with the efficiency, light weight, and portability of a text interface.
It can function as a stand-alone package manager or serve as a front-end to
.BR sbopkg ,
.BR sbotools ,
or custom SBo package managers.
Its main features include:
.IP \(bu
Efficient operation with the keyboard, and full mouse support
.IP \(bu
Forward and inverse dependency resolution
.IP \(bu
Automatic rebuilding of inverse dependencies (optional)
.IP \(bu
Blacklisting
.IP \(bu
Storing build options for individual SlackBuild scripts
.IP \(bu
"Tagging" to operate on multiple SlackBuilds
.IP \(bu
Searching the repository by name or by content in READMEs
.IP \(bu
A menu bar, buttons, drop-downs, and other elements typically found in a GUI
.PP
.B Instructions
.PP
If the built-in package manager is not going to be used, a package manager such as
.BR sbopkg ,
.BR sbotools ,
or a custom tool must be installed.
.B sboui
also requires a configuration file,
.I /etc/sboui/sboui.conf
(the system-wide default) or
.I ~/.sboui.conf
(per-user override of the system-wide default).
The initial install will provide the former, while upgrades will add
.I /etc/sboui/sboui.conf.new
that the user can choose to merge with or replace the original.
See
.BR sboui.conf (5)
for more information about the configuration file.
Note also that all options can be changed interactively in the Options window, and doing so will overwrite
.IR ~/.sboui.conf .
.PP
.B sboui
can be operated most efficiently with the keyboard.
See the Help menu for a full list of shortcuts.
Full mouse support is also implemented for those who prefer to use the mouse.
To switch the active pane, use the
.I Tab
key or the
.I Right
and
.I Left
arrow keys.
Use the
.I Up
and
.I Down
arrow keys,
.IR Home ,
.IR End ,
.IR PgUp ,
and 
.I PgDn
to navigate lists and dialog boxes.
When the right (or bottom, if using the vertical layout) list is active, press
.I Enter
or double-click to display possible actions for the highlighted software package.
The
.I q 
key quits the program.
Please see the Operation section in README.md for more information on typical workflows.
.SH OPTIONS
Command-line options for
.B sboui
are as follows:
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " " \fIFILE\fR
.br
Specify a configuration file other than
.I /etc/sboui/sboui.conf
or
.IR ~/.sboui.conf .
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-sync
.br
Sync (update) the local repository non-interactively.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-upgrade-all
.br
Open
.B sboui
interactively with all upgradable SlackBuilds tagged for upgrade.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-upgradable
.br
Print the number of upgradable SlackBuilds and the list to stdout.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
.br
Print a summary of command line options to stdout.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
.br
Print version information for
.B sboui
to stdout.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 if the command line options are valid and the configuration file was successfully read.
If invalid command line options are specified, the configuration file could not be read, or the configuration file contains errors, the exit status is 1.
Other errors that can occur during execution (e.g., a build failure for a package) are indicated to the user but do not affect the exit status.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PAGER
.br
Application used to view READMEs.
.B less
is used as the default if this environment variable is not set.
.TP
\fBVISUAL\fR or \fBEDITOR\fR
.br
Application to edit files using the Browse files function.
VISUAL is checked first.
If it is unset, EDITOR is used instead.
.B vi
is used as the default if neither variable is set.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sboui/sboui.conf
.br
System-wide configuration file for
.BR sboui .
See
.BR sboui.conf (5)
for more information about the entries in this file.
.TP
.I ~/.sboui.conf
.br
Per-user override of
.IR /etc/sboui/sboui.conf .
Note: this file is overwritten when settings are changed in the Options window of the user interface.
.TP
.I /etc/sboui/package_blacklist
.br
File used to blacklist installed packages.
Installed packages are searched for matches in the app name, version, arch, build, and complete package name against all patterns listed in this file.
Regex patterns are allowed.
.IP
The package_blacklist is used to prevent software from being upgraded, reinstalled, or removed, but not from being installed in the first place. 
These three actions will not be available for blacklisted packages.
Blacklisted packages will also be excluded from the Upgradable filter and included in the Blacklisted filter.
.TP
.I /etc/sboui/sboui-backend.conf
.br
Configuration file for the built-in package manager,
.BR sboui-backend .
See
.BR sboui-backend (8)
and
.BR sboui-backend.conf (5)
for more information.
.TP
Color theme files
.br
Files defining colors for different UI elements.
System color themes are stored in
.IR /usr/share/sboui/themes .
Users can also add their own color themes in
.IR $HOME/.local/share/sboui/themes.
If not present, default color settings will be used.
See
.BR sboui.conf (5)
for more information about changing color settings.
.TP
Build options files
.br
Files containing build options for SlackBuilds.
There is one file per SlackBuild, with the naming convention {SlackBuild name}.buildopts.
They are stored in
.IR /var/lib/sboui/buildopts .
These files are automatically created by
.B sboui
when build options are set through the user interface and
.B save_buildopts
is enabled, but they can also be created manually if desired.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to the email address below or on the issue tracker for sboui's project page,
.IR https://github.com/montagdude/sboui .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sboui.conf (5),
.BR sboui-backend (8),
.BR sboui-backend.conf (5),
.BR ncurses (3X),
.BR dialog (1),
.BR sbopkg (8),
.BR sboinstall (1),
.BR su (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel Prosser <dpross1100@msn.com>
