.TH SBOUI-BACKEND 8
.SH NAME
sboui-backend \- command-line utility for installing software from SlackBuilds.org
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sboui-backend
\fBupdate\fR

.B sboui-backend
\fI[OPTIONS]\fR \fBinstall\fR \fINAME(s)\fR

.B sboui-backend
\fBinfo\fR \fINAME\fR

.B sboui-backend
\fB{search|search-readmes} \fIPATTERN\fR

.B sboui-backend
\fBlist-groups\fR

.B sboui-backend
\fBbrowse-group\fR \fINAME\fR

.B sboui-backend
\fB\-\-help\fR, \fB\-h\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sboui-backend
is a tool to easily install software from SlackBuilds.org.
It is the "built-in" package manager for
.BR sboui ,
but it can also be used standalone from the command line.
It is similar to
.B sbopkg
and
.BR sbotools ,
but simpler; it is intended to be a minimal SBo package manager for 
.BR sboui ,
which adds in more advanced features such as automatic forward and inverse dependency resolution. 
.B sboui
can function equally well with any of these three package managers (\fBsbopkg\fR, \fBsbotools\fR, or \fBsboui-backend\fR), but
.B sboui-backend
allows
.B sboui
to run without any separate SBo package manager installed.

.PP
.B Instructions
.PP
Before running
.BR sboui-backend ,
select the desired repository and branch in
.IR /etc/sboui/sboui-backend.conf .
.B sboui-backend
uses
.B git
to manage the local SBo repository.
You should select the proper repository to match your Slackware installation.
See
.BR sboui-backend.conf (5)
for more information about the configuration file.

To create the local repository, run
\fBsboui-backend update\fR
or use the sync command within
.B sboui
with the \fBpackage_manager\fR set to \fBbuilt-in\fR.
This will create the local repository if it does not yet exist or update it if it does.
After that, packages can be built and installed or upgraded using the \fBinstall\fR action.
There are also several commands for searching and browsing the repository, as will be discussed in the next session.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B update
.br
Create or sync the local SBo repository.
.TP
\fBinstall\fR \fI[OPTIONS]\fR \fINAME(s)\fR
.br
Install or upgrade an SBo package, or packages, by name.
If multiple SlackBuild names are listed, the action will be applied to each one.

.I OPTIONS

\fB\-f\fR or \fB\-\-force\fR: if a requested package is already installed and up-to-date, reinstall without asking for confirmation first.

\fB\-s\fR \fIDIRECTORY\fR or \fB\-\-sourcedir\fR=\fIDIRECTORY\fR: instead of downloading source code, copy it from the specified directory.

.TP
\fBinfo\fR \fINAME\fR
.br
Display the contents of README and README.SLACKWARE / README.Slackware files corresponding to the named SlackBuild.
.TP
\fBsearch\fR \fIPATTERN\fR
.br
Searches for SlackBuilds whose name matches all or part of the given pattern.
For any matches, lists the group it belongs to and whether it is installed.
.TP
\fBsearch-readmes\fR \fIPATTERN\fR
.br
Searches in README files for the given pattern.
For any matches, lists the name of the SlackBuild whose README contains the pattern.
Note that the search READMEs function in
.B sboui
is much faster than this method and finds matches both in the README files and the SlackBuild name.
.TP
\fBlist-groups\fR
.br
Displays a list of all groups (e.g., academic, desktop, libraries, etc.) in the repository.
.TP
\fBbrowse-group\fR \fINAME\fR
.br
Displays a list of all SlackBuilds in a given group.
.TP
\fB-h\fR or \fB--help\fR
.br
Displays a short description of each action in
.BR sboui-backend .
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 if all commands executed as expected. Returns non-zero if:
.IP \(bu
The git clone or git pull commands initiated by the
.B update
action fail.
This can happen if permissions in repo directory are incorrect or if the REPO or BRANCH variables in
.I sboui-backend.conf
are invalid.
.IP \(bu
An invalid option or nonexistent SlackBuild is specified for the 
.B install
action.
.IP \(bu
The
\fB-s\fR or \fB--sourcedir\fR option is specified for the
.B install
command, but the sources are not found in the specified directory.
.IP \(bu
Source code failed to download or failed the MD5sum check.
.IP \(bu
Building the package failed.
.IP \(bu
Invalid command line options were specified.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CONF
.br
Configuration file to read.
By default, it is
.IR /etc/sboui/sboui-backend.conf ,
but this environment variable can be set to read a different file instead.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/sboui/sboui-backend.conf
.br
Default configuration file for
.BR sboui-backend .
See
.BR sboui-backend.conf (5)
for more information about the entries in this file.
.SH BUGS
None known, but please report any to the address below.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sboui-backend.conf (5),
.BR sboui (8),
.BR sboui.conf (5),
.BR sbopkg (8),
.BR sboinstall (1),
.BR su (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel Prosser <dpross1100@msn.com>
